Welcome back to the course.
So in this lecture this is actually going to be the beginning of where we start prototyping.
Now this is of course different than the previous section where we are wireframe.
Those are all low fidelity.
Those are all used just to basically show off structure and to show off roughly what goes in what area
what it should look like.
And those are primarily used for giving them to developers or give them to designers.
Now now we're going to do is we're going to get into prototyping.
Prototypes are much more interactive.
They're much more real looking and they're much more high fidelity.
So in order to show you easily what this is like.
I've actually brought in a project that we at Sprint could use and I think it's a good example because
it's an internal project that we decided to build.
And it's very helpful to see because we have it all the way from the beginning all the way to the end
and it's something that we're currently developing.
But I can show you all of the documentation that we've built for it.
And then I can use that as an example to go into Paducah and then show you how if I wanted to create
a prototype I could do that and then deploy it to whatever device that and putting it into.
So we called it the marketing access panel and what the idea behind this project was was that we wanted
to create a web portal where designers or developers or really anyone who works with web projects can
show off their portfolio but do it in a simpler easier way then a lot of the things that are available
out there.
Now a lot of people use like core a lot.
I might be pronouncing that wrong or dribble or a lot of like be Hanse is very popular with designers.
Now those all have different angles they are going for.
We wanted to create something that was ideal for studios specifically we wanted to go after people who
worked in a team had large projects and wanted to be able to do case studies on their individual portfolio
items.
Now that's obviously different than some people what they do is they'll just literally take whatever
they design or they develop throw it up.
You know you see it and they just show you images maybe the couple senses of text that's not useful
for a large group of creatives out there.
And so we decided that maybe you know why don't we try something out instead.
So here is actually the wireframe of the front page.
Now I can explain a little bit what's going on over here.
Now I built this in balsamic.
We didn't actually use Pinocchio.
This is something we switched to just recently.
But here you can see it's really not very complicated.
The idea behind this was that when you land on the Web site you have a top bar at the top where you
could search through someone's project logo would be something that's selectable.
Whoever is creating this portfolio could put whatever they want up here their name their logo whatever
and then they could tag individual sections within their portfolio and use those categories button over
here I just put circles and the idea behind the circles was that you would upload an image that represents
your portfolio item and this system would automatically put that into a circle and display it here.
And then here was a way that they could click a button and change the way that it's organized.
Now over here we had notes and these are the things that we were just thinking about as we put it together
some design notes some explanation of functionality that otherwise was not kind of obvious.
And so like right here what we can see is this would be what happened after you click this button right
here once you click that button it would put you into a line item list out all of your portfolios.
So then all of a sudden you know the person who setting this would pick what the ranking is and be able
to put a subtitle for each one.
So just scrolling through this is the idea that after you click on one of these circles it would rotate
over to the top left corner.
And then you would have this standard static design where you could display a cover image a title subtitle
some text some basic statistics and then you could just scroll all the way down where you could do kind
of popular case study techniques where you would say here's a quote here's the person who said the quote
here's another screenshot.
Here are some like process screenshots here.
You know more process screen shots and then here's something like this is what we did for the client.
So you would list all your items have another screen shot and this would link directly to the site.
Very simple.
I mean this is quite literally a two page design.
We wanted it to never have to load a separate page so quite literally you'd see dots you click on the
dot it pops open if you want to get to this you click out of it it goes right back.
Now I've been right here is what I did as I just listed out the functionality as I was thinking about
it of what I thought people would need when they were creating this.
So we just kind of stuck together all those things we would need.
So literally all we did is we went up and found these sections up here and then said OK while the user
is going to find some way to input this and like pick this image pick this image picks these list items.
So this is kind of what we came up with.
And then down here it was a separate design that we created separately and then we ended up getting
both in design and we picked which ones we like better.
This was just kind of a concept where you might have a tag bubble where you took a tag and it presents
all the tags that the user has identified you click it and then it gets rid of some of the circles and
shows them something else.
I know I'll show you at the back end looked like really quickly.
So this is the back end back it was a little bit more complicated.
So what we decided to do was make it look really like a portal and at all times have a preview button
up here so as I was inputting my information about my portfolio I could always just click here and preview
so I can see what it looks like as I'm building it in real time.
Over here you would add projects so I would add a project and I would add something here and list out
the name set my settings over here and then I think the idea behind this was that we were going to make
this all free and it would be kind of like a Legion.
And so here obviously is how we would see each form looking.
And we tried to make it as simple as possible very conversational.
Here's how you would create a project Picketts positioning you'd upload your logo etc. etc..
And here's where they would go and insert all the information that we just previously saw here is somewhere
or you take clicked your settings and you do universal changes where you can change your logo change
your background change the for like your email pick your fonts things like that.
Some of these are aspirational so tightly surefooted to put them in but we put it that way.
So those were the low fidelity wireframe.
That's what they would look like.
Now I'll show you what it actually came out looking like.
OK so we can take a look here.
What the final designs ended up looking like.
I'll show you what the front page looks like.
So this is what our designers came back with and this is just the web version.
So here was the stack version that we saw previously at Stax.
Each individual item.
And so I can show you what the end kind of the finished designs look like.
So this would be the view.
Now you can see a little bit better.
What we are talking about here would be the logo.
Here's their categories.
Some of these are already designed such that it looks like you've already touched them.
And this is the idea behind what each individual portfolio item would look like.
Then there's a contact button at the bottom.
All show you quickly what the back end looks like.
So this would be the back end.
So it looks like over here right at the project here is where you contact us preview Web site et cetera
et cetera.
And so this pretty much is ready for programming.
Now if you didn't want to go all the way and start spending big money to build it or taking a lot of
time to build yourself then you'd go into the prototyping phase.
We went ahead and got a lot of separate sections developed because it will make the prototype look a
lot better.
So for instance we use walk through screens.
So the first time someone logs onto the screen they can see things like this.
It directs them where to go how things work and you'd be amazed how much we can simulate in POKO.
We also went ahead and made mobile versions and I'll show you how to do that in this section how we
can make mobile section.
So for instance this would be the back end panel where you upload all your information.
Now whether or not you would want to do all of this in Mobile that's a decision you probably would have
made previously.
We decided that we wanted it to work on mobile and so we designed this kind of section for it up here
you can tell this is actually you just swipe through to go to individual projects and then you upload
it just kind of like you would.
Yeah.
So we made a lot of secondary screens.
We put together quite a bit of everything we could think of.
This is the page that you would see on the front end to where I were if you were to click on a project.
So here we could see you know here's your cover photo your text description individual items etc. etc..
So all right.
So follow along in the section and I'm going to show you how you can take these designs that we've created
put them into POKO and start adding some interactivity So in the next lecture.